In this assignment, you will assume the role of a recently hired machine learning engineer in an organization that has been asked to use available data to identify an organizational need that could be solved by machine learning. The organization then needs to outline a plan for designing and executing a machine learning model to solve this organizational need. You will explore available data sets and machine learning algorithms supporting the construction of a model that the organization would use, following the plan that you put together. You will outline the problem, the solution, and the project plan, as well as the framework for evaluating the success of the model and the project.

Project Overview

A.  Create a proposal for a machine learning project by doing the following:

1.  Describe an organizational need that your project proposes to solve.

2.  Describe the context and background for your project.

3.  Review three outside works that explore machine learning solutions that apply to the need described in part A1.



Note: These works may include interviews, white papers, research studies, or other types of work by industry professionals. Works that support your research may be identified from various sources, including the WGU Library.



a.  Describe how each reviewed work from part A3 relates to the development of your project.



4.  Summarize the machine learning solution you plan to use to address the organizational need described in part A1.

5.  Describe the benefits of your proposed machine learning



Machine Learning Project Design

B.  Describe your proposed machine learning project plan by doing the following:

1.  Define the scope of the proposed machine learning project.

2.  Explain the goals, objectives, and deliverables for the proposed project.

3.  Explain how you will apply a standard methodology (e.g., CRISP-DM, SEMMA) to the implementation of your proposed project.

4.  Provide a projected timeline for the proposed project, including the start and end dates for each task.

5.  List resources (e.g., hardware, software, work hours, third-party services) and all associated costs needed to implement the proposed solution.

6.  Describe the criteria that you will use to evaluate the success of the project once it is completed.



Machine Learning Solution Design

C.  Describe the proposed machine learning solution you will use to address the organizational need identified in part A1 by doing the following:

1.  Identify the hypothesis of the proposed project.

2.  Identify the machine learning algorithm(s) (i.e., supervised, unsupervised, or reinforcement learning) you will implement in your proposed solution.

a.  Justify the selection of the algorithm in part C2. Include one advantage and one limitation of the selected machine learning method.

3.  Describe the tools and environments that will be used to develop the proposed machine learning solution, including any third-party code.

4.  Explain the process you will use to measure the performance of your proposed machine learning solution.



Description of Data Set(s)

D.  Describe the data for your proposed project by doing the following:

1.  Identify the source(s) of the data for your proposed project.

2.  Describe the data collection method.

a.  Discuss one advantage and one limitation of the data collection method described in part D2.

3.  Explain how you will prepare your data for use by the machine learning algorithm(s) from part C2 for your proposed project, including data set formatting, missing data, outliers, dirty data, or mitigation of other data anomalies.

4.  Describe behaviors that should be exercised when working with and communicating about sensitive data in your project.



E.  Acknowledge sources, using in-text citations and references, for content that is quoted, paraphrased, or summarized.